---
layout: post
title: OpenSFF
---

The purpose of the OpenSFF scorecard was basically a product to help open source maintainers improve their security best practices and to help open source consumers judge whether their dependencies are. Their project had 2 simple goals which was “Automate analysis and trust decisions on the security posture of open source projects.” and “Use this data to proactively improve the security posture of the critical projects the world depends on.” This is a smaller community so there were 146 contributors for this project. The community is very active, the last commit was two days ago, meaning that this project still has some issues that can be fixed. If I was interested in this Small community project the way I would contribute would be to start with issues labeled  “good first issue.” I would start with these issues only because it's good for newcomers like myself. There are many usable documents used in the OpenSFF community that help people navigate and get started. Starting with the read.md, which starts off by giving a description of the Scorecard and what it is used for, then it gives the overview of the scorecard. Also another usable document in the OpenSFF community is the  Scorecard Security Policy, which outlines security procedures and general policies for the OpenSSF Scorecard project, which is useful for newcomers or anyone wanting to use this program. The last document that is important is the release scoreboard document, which is a draft document to describe the release process for Scorecard.

The way this community tracks bugs is by using the issue tab. In the issue tab there are different labels that can help contributors pick out what issues they would like to work on. As of right now there are 326 issues opened right now and contributors are actively working on the problems. The community actually has a way to report bugs by clicking the link under report problems.
Downloading this product won’t take that long because this community has a designated link where they have a step by step installation for this product, with pictures and descriptions. This OpenSFF community uses slack to communicate with each other, they have multiple different channels but they are not as welcoming as other slack communities. The most interesting thing I learned about these small communities projects, is the different tools that you can use on github to learn different insights such as the number of commits and contributors in the past month or year. This tool is very useful to get insight on the community.


