---
layout: post
title: p5.js
---

p5.js is a JavaScript library for creative coding, with a focus on making coding accessible and inclusive for artists, designers, educators, beginners, and anyone else! p5.js is free and open-source because the contributors believe software, and the tools to learn it, should be accessible to everyone. While evaluating this larger-scale community I found out there are 617 contributors for this project which is double the contributors that OpenSFF had. The community is not as active as the smaller scale community, but the last commit was two days ago, This shows that contributors are making commits to this project. If I was interested in this Larger scale community project, One way I would contribute is to start off with the broken link that is supposed to link to a document for beginner contributors. There are many usable documents used in the p5.js community that help people navigate and get started. Starting with the read.md, which starts off by giving a description of what p5.js and what it is used for, then it gives the overview of the library. The link to help newcomers is broken but that would send contributors to the p5.js Contributing document which helps contributors on where to contribute. For example it states “The GitHub issues are for bugs and feature requests for the p5.js library itself. If you have a general question or bug programming with p5.js please post it in the p5.js forum.” which navigates the contributors to the issues to work on. 
The way this community tracks bugs is by using the issue tab. In the issue tab there are different labels that can help contributors pick out what issues they would like to work on. As of right now there are 262 issues opened right, which is less than the OpenSFF community but contributors are actively working on the problems. Downloading this product won’t take that long because it's like an extension used for js.  This p5.js community uses forum and discord to communicate with each other, they have multiple different channels but they are more welcoming than the OpenSFF community. The most interesting thing I learned about this larger communities project, is that it is harder to be seen. If you think about it, having more contributors you may have to fight for your commits to be pushed up to the upstream so that is something I will think about when looking for a project.
