---
layout: post
title: Finail Blog Post
---

My goal was to learn as much as possible from open source software. Coming into this internship I did not know anything at all. I didn’t know about Folk, Pr, commit, repo, etc…. Those are just a few things I learned during this open source software internship. Learning these new concepts will help me in the future to become a full stack developer. Receiving help from Emily and Silas has really helped me with pursuing my goal. I will be forever grateful. I’m really glad I got to learn this information about open source software. I can really see its benefits in the future.
Starting with the most challenging for me and my team is really understanding SQL Injection. After the first reed we thought we knew about  SQL injection but we were wrong. We were glad Emily caught us before we put anything into the lab. Something else that was challenging to me in the lab was learning about regular expressions. There are so many combinations that can come out of a string that it makes it complicated. Understanding the exercise template took some time too, we had to learn new syntax by looking at other files. The last thing that was really challenging was trying to implement the hints into the lab.
The most rewarding issue to engage with is committing a Pull Request. It’s just so thrilling to submit a pull request. Sometimes it can be very scary if you are a new contributor and also if it's a larger community. But that feeling of when a maintainer merges your commits into big projects feels so good. Also another reward is networking with people in the open source community. Emily has introduced us to many high ranking people in open source and they were so cool and relaxed, so that networking part is also very rewarding. Last but not least, learning new concepts in open source is very rewarding. Knowing these concepts will benefit me in my future career is my motivation to keep learning it.

The most valuable thing I learned from this catalyst fellowship is the concepts on github. Basically learning what a Pull request, commit, repo, and fork is. Learning these concepts will help me in the future when I become a full stack developer. I also learned that github is a good place to store your code and commits. Pushing from my local vs code to github is very rewarding too, if something happens to my computer everything will be saved on github if it was pushed. Hypothetically, I do feel like I now have sufficient tools and experience to contribute to additional open source projects on my own, I can actually start applying to jobs for open source that's how confident I am.
I do plan to stay engaged as an open source contributor beyond the end of this program depending on my schedule. I know gaining a masters degree can be difficult so if I have time I will stay engaged because this will go great on my resume and benefit me in the future. YES I Would be interested in further opportunities in open source, If I get a chance I will apply to come back to become a mentor next year. I can see myself in a future open source job so if any opportunities are open I will apply.


